SIX
OR NINE AND I'M GOING TO CALL
TO ORDER THE SEPTEMBER I'M
SORRY NOVEMBER TWENTY FIFTH
MEETING OF THE ANN ARBOR
INDEPENDENT COMMUNITY POLICE
OVERSIGHT COMMISSION.
MISS CUMMINS, WOULD YOU PLEASE
CALL THE ROLL?
>> ALL RIGHT, EVERYBODY TURN
YOUR MIKES ON SO I CAN START
JIMMY CARTER HERE.
MR. OFTEN HERE, COMMISSIONER
MILGROM HERE.
COMMISSIONER PIPKINS HERE.
COMMISSIONER GREENE HERE.
>> COMMISSIONER LEW HERE,
COMMISSIONER MAINLY HERE.
COMMISSIONER COOPER
COMMISSIONER HAYNES COUNCIL
MEMBER HARRISON HERE, COUNCIL
MEMBER IGHER SHE'S HERE SHE IS
GREAT.
WE HAVE THE CORE THANK YOU
COMMISSIONERS.
I'D ASK YOU PLEASE TO REVIEW
THE AGENDA WHICH YOU HAVE IN
FRONT OF YOU AS WELL AS THE
MINUTES FROM THE
OCTOBER MEETING
.
CAN I HAVE A MOTION FOR
APPROVAL OF THE AGENDA?
SO THANK YOU.
IS THERE A SIX?
THANK YOU.
ANY DISCUSSION ALL IN FAVOR
OF APPROVING THE AGENDA AS
WRITTEN?
PLEASE SAY I HAVE ANY OPPOSED.
>> THANK YOU.
MOVING ON TO THE MINUTES FROM
OUR LAST MEETING.
CAN I HAVE A MOTION TO APPROVE
PLEASE?
MOTION TO APPROVE THE MINUTES
FROM THIS MEETING.
THANK SAYS I THANK YOU.
LET ME MAKE IT THAT ANY ANY
QUESTIONS, ADDITIONS, COMMENTS
ON THE MINUTES FROM OUR
OCTOBER MEETING IF NOT ALL IN
FAVOR AND UH, COMMISSIONER, ANY
OPPOSED?
>> ALL RIGHT.
THANK YOU.
THE MINUTES AND AGENDA ARE
APPROVED.
MOVING ON.
THIS IS OUR TIME FOR PUBLIC
COMMENT.
IS THERE ANYONE PRESENT WHO
WOULD LIKE TO TALK TO THE
COMMISSION ABOUT ANYTHING
DURING YOU HAVE THREE MINUTES
IF YOU'D LIKE TO DO THAT.
OK, IS THERE ANYBODY ON THE
PHONE MISS COMMENTS
AT THIS
TIME?
>> WE HAVE NOBODY ON THE PHONE.
THANK YOU.
OK, UM, NEXT ON THE AGENDA IS
THE REPORT ON THE CHAIR.
THERE ARE A LOT OF THINGS I
WANT TO REPORT ON FIRST ATTACH
TO YOUR AGENDA IN YOUR MINUTES
IS A REPORT FROM THE NACOLE
CONFERENCE.
THREE OF YOUR COMMISSIONERS
WAMP AND I THOUGHT IT WAS
EXTREMELY BENEFICIAL.
I'M GOING TO ASK COMMISSIONER
GREENE IF HE HAS ANY COMMENTS
HE'D LIKE TO MAKE OUTSIDE OF WE
ALL TOOK PART IN PREPARING THE
REPORT AND SO DOES HE HAVE ANY
COMMENTS PAST WHAT WE HAVE
WRITTEN UP?
OH YES.
I'D LIKE TO SAY IT WAS A VERY
INFORMATIVE I WAS REALLY
IMPRESSED BY NOT SIMPLY THE
NUMBER OF ATTENDEES BUT I WAS
ALSO IMPRESSED BY THE FACT THAT
MANY PERSONS ARE
THE BUSINESS
OF EMPLOYER
OF MONITORING
POLICE AGENCIES AND ENFORCING
CONSENT DECREES THIS IS THEIR
LIVELIHOOD, THEIR JOB AND AND
THEY TAKE THEIR JOB SERIOUSLY.
SO I WAS REALLY IMPRESSED WITH
THE SERIOUSNESS I WAS IMPRESSED
WITH THE VARIOUS WORKSHOPS THAT
WERE PRESENTED.
THEY WERE INFORMATIVE AND
LIVELY.
>> SO I LOOK FORWARD TO COMING
BACK AGAIN.
GOOD, GOOD.
THANK YOU.
I'M VERY GLAD THAT I ATTENDED.
YEAH GOOD.
YEAH.
AND TO TO SEE THE DIVERSITY
OF ACROSS THE COUNTRY OF COURSE
THERE WERE PEOPLE THERE FROM
ALL ACROSS THE COUNTRY AND
VARIOUS OVERSIGHT COMMISSIONS
COMMITTEES THE DIFFERENT POWERS
THAT THEY HAVE.
ONE OF THE THINGS THAT
COMMISSIONER HAYNES WHO'S OUT
OF TOWN WANTED TO POINT OUT IS
THAT SOME COMMISSIONS ACROSS
THE COUNTRY HAVE SUBPOENA POWER
AND INITIALLY WHEN OF COURSE
COMMISSIONER HAYNES WAS ON THE
THE TASK FORCE THAT PUT
TOGETHER IPAC AND PART OF WHAT
THEY HAD INITIALLY PROPOSED
INCLUDED SUBPOENA POWER FOR
AIRPARK BUT THAT WAS REMOVED
PRAISED THE LAW.
WE HAVE NOT HAD AN OPPORTUNITY
.
WE HAVEN'T HAD THE NECESSITY
OF USING THAT OF NEEDING THAT
KIND OF POWER AUTHORITY.
BUT SOME AGENCIES DO HAVE IT SO
HOPEFULLY YOU LEARN SOME THINGS
FROM THE REPORT WE DID PUT
TOGETHER I WAS IMPRESSED BY THE
MOTHER OF ORLANDO CASTILLO.
YOU REMEMBER MR. CASTILLO WHO
WAS SHOT AND KILLED WITHIN
SECONDS OF BEING STOPPED BY THE
POLICE AND SHE WAS HEART
WRENCHING REALLY.
SHE WAS SHE SHE WAS YOUR HEART
JUST GOES OUT TO ANYONE WHO HAS
CHILDREN WOULD KNOW IF YOUR
CHILD IS TAKEN AWAY FROM YOU.
SOMETHING ELSE THAT WAS
INTERESTING THAT WE HEARD FROM
THE ATTORNEY GENERAL KEITH
ELLISON SPOKE AND HE PROSECUTED
CHILDREN DERIK CHILDREN WHO
MURDERED GEORGE FLOYD AND HE
SAID SOMETHING VERY INTERESTING
AND I THOUGHT OF WHAT YOU HAVE
SAID AS WELL, COUNCILPERSON
HARRISON, THAT SHELVIN HAD LOTS
OF TRAINING, HE HAD MORE
TRAINING THAN MOST OF THE OTHER
OFFICERS.
BUT CULTURE WILL TRUMP TRAINING
.
>> SO WE DO BELIEVE I BELIEVE
PERSONALLY THAT WE'RE MOVING
TOWARDS A GOOD CULTURE HERE IN
ANN ARBOR WITH OUR POLICE
DEPARTMENT AND I'M HAPPY THAT
PART IS PART OF THAT.
BUT THAT WAS THE WHOLE THING
WAS IMPRESSIVE.
WE'RE GLAD WE WENT AND HOPE
EVERYBODY GETS A CHANCE TO GO
NEXT YEAR.
OK, I'M SORRY.
>> I AM SORRY COMMISSIONER.
I JUST HAD A COUPLE
OF QUESTIONS ABOUT YOUR
REPORTER.
OK, OK WELL SO I JUST WANT A
CLARIFICATION ON ONE OF THE
ITEMS YOU MENTIONED THAT SO
THERE WAS AN OFFICER HAD
REPORTED AN ASSAULT THAT YOU
WENT TO A SECTION WHERE THEY
TALKED ABOUT AN OFFICER WHO HAD
WHO HAD REPORTED AN ASSAULT BY
ANOTHER OFFICER.
I GUESS I WASN'T CLEAR IT WAS
IT AND THEN THE OFFICER WAS IT
THE OFFICER WHO REPORTED THE
ASSAULT?
>> YES.
I'M SORRY IF THAT WASN'T CLEAR.
THE OFFICER WHO WHO SAW IS
FELLOW OFFICER AND REPORTED IT
TO JEFF.
SO AS IF BECAUSE HE REPORTED
IT.
YES, BECAUSE HE DIDN'T
INTERVENE.
>> WELL, I DON'T KNOW PROBABLY
ALL ALL TIED TOGETHER.
OK, HE INITIALLY I THINK
BECAUSE HE DIDN'T BECAUSE HE
SAID SOMETHING ALSO ABOUT THE
DUTY TO INTERVENE WAS RIGHT
INVOLVED.
>> SO RIGHT AFTER THAT I
UNDERSTAND WHY WHY WOULD THE
OFFICER WHO REPORTED IT WHY
WOULD HE BE THE ONE WHO WAS A
JOB RATHER THAN THE OFFICER WHO
ASSAULTED WHAT WERE THE IT WAS
MY UNDERSTANDING I DON'T KNOW
IF YOU WERE IN THAT SESSION BUT
IT WAS MY UNDERSTANDING THAT
BECAUSE THE OFFICER MADE THAT
REPORT I MEAN I DON'T KNOW IF
IT WAS A DIRECT RESULT OF YOU
MADE THAT REPORT BUT HE WAS
HARASSED TO THE POINT THAT HE
LOST HIS JOB AND THE WHOLE DUTY
TO INTERVENE THEN AND TO REPORT
COMES OUT OF THAT SITUATION
WHERE YOU KNOW, OFFICER
ACTUALLY HAS A DUTY AND CANNOT
BE REPRIMANDED FOR REPORTING
SOME KIND OF MISCONDUCT FROM A
FELLOW OFFICER TO COME AS WELL.
>> ARE YOU KNOW, DURING SOME
OF THE TRAINING THEY USED THE
WORD KACZOR OVER AND OVER AGAIN
AND INITIALLY I THOUGHT THEY
WERE TALKING ABOUT THE CULTURE
OF THE COMMUNITY.
THEY WERE TALKING ABOUT THE
CULTURE OF THE POLICE AGENCY.
RIGHT.
THAT THERE'S A CULTURE WITHIN
THE AGENCY ITSELF AND THAT'S IN
YOUR TRAINING.
RIGHT.
SO THAT'S PROBABLY WHY HE WAS
TERMINATED BECAUSE OF THE
CULTURE WITHIN THE POLICE
AGENCY.
HE HAD VIOLATED THAT CULTURE.
OK, I MEAN I COULD WELL I
UNDERSTAND HOW HE COULD PERHAPS
IN THOSE CIRCUMSTANCES BE
HARASSED BY FELLOW OFFICERS.
BUT HOW DO YOU HOW DID THE
CHIEF JUSTIFY TERMINATING HIM
ON THAT BASIS?
>> AND I WISH I HAD MORE
DETAILS THAT PARTICULAR CASE
WAS SOMETHING THAT WAS JUST
SORT OF MENTIONED WHAT WAS THE
COMMUNITY DID THEY KNOW OK, NO,
NOT AT ALL.
>> BUT IF YOU HAVE A CHIEF WHO
TOLERATES YOU THAT KIND
OF WHATEVER HAPPENED WITH THAT
OFFICER BUT THE BOTTOM LINE WAS
THE OFFICER WHO MADE THE REPORT
LOST HIS JOB, OK?
>> AND YES, MY QUESTION IS
SINCE YOU HAD THE CHANCE TO SEE
OTHER OVERSIGHT COMMISSIONS
OVER THERE, WHAT DO YOU THINK
YOU PLACE OVER COMMISSION WERE
AT LAST IN TERMS OF ARE WE LIKE
THE MIDDLE OF THE PACK OR THE
HEAD OF THE PACK BEHIND THE
PACK WITH WHAT I KNOW THAT SOME
SOME COMMISSIONERS HAVE
AUTHORITY SOME DON'T HAVE LIKE
US.
BUT IN THAT CLASS OF OVERSIGHT
WHAT DO YOU THINK YOU CAN PUT
US PERSONALLY?
YOU'RE RIGHT, THERE'S A BROAD
RANGE.
THERE ARE THERE'S AN IN A LARGE
CITY AND I DON'T WANT TO
MISQUOTE BUT I THINK IT WAS
CHICAGO IF THERE IS A SHOOTING
OR SOMETHING LIKE THAT, THEY
GET THE REPORT WHEN THE POLICE
GET THE REPORT RIGHT AND THEY
AND THEY CAN RELEASE A
STATEMENT TO THE PUBLIC, THEY
CAN TALK TO THE FAMILY.
THEY HAVE SUBPOENA POWER.
THEY CAN YOU KNOW, THEY CAN
INVESTIGATE SO THEY GO FROM
THAT TO I DON'T KNOW WE ARE
ADVISORY ONLY YOU KNOW, WE HAVE
NO TEETH IS THERE ARE MANY
CALLS FROM PAST PASADENA TEN
THIS NUMBER ATTENDED THE LAST
TO MAKE CALLS AND THINGS LIKE I
DIDN'T RUN ACROSS TOO MANY THAT
WERE LIKE, YOU KNOW, I GUESS
BUT IT SEEMED LIKE MOST OF THEM
HAVE BEEN SET IN PLACE AS FAR
AS DIFFERENT I THINK A LOT
OF THEM DO.
I TALKED TO THIS WAS ANOTHER
CITY IN MICHIGAN AND I WON'T
MENTION WHAT IT WHERE IT WAS
SHE TOLD ME THAT THEY HAVE
TROUBLE THE THEY THEY DON'T
HAVE ANY MONEY.
THEY DIDN'T GIVE THEM ANY MONEY
.
THEY THEY BASICALLY DON'T YOU
KNOW YOU THINK WE DON'T HAVE
ANY POWER THEY THEY CAN NOT DO
ANYTHING I MEAN IT JUST SORT
OF A FIGUREHEAD COMMISSION SO I
DON'T KNOW I I DON'T KNOW AND
WE DIDN'T I DON'T THINK I
DIDN'T GET THAT INFORMATION IN
TERMS OF THE THE RANGE
OF COMMISSION'S OVERSIGHT
AGENCIES.
>> BUT I I KEEP SAYING OUR TYPE
OF AGENCY WOULDN'T WORK IN
CHICAGO SO WE'RE HERE IN ANN
ARBOR AND IT SEEMS LIKE WE'RE
WORKING PRETTY WELL.
IT'S THANK YOU.
>> OK.
ANY OTHER COMMENTS ABOUT THE
NACOLE REPORT TO THE NOISE
THE
SITE?
YES WE DID AND I MYSELF AND
COMMISSIONER HANS WE PERSONALLY
WENT TO THE SITE.
IT WAS VERY HEART WRENCHING.
>> THERE'S A MUSEUM I KIND
MAKESHIFT MUSEUM THERE
STREETSIDE HAS POSTERS, ARTWORK
AND ACTUALLY WENT TO THE STORE
WHERE I GUESS HE CAME OUT
OF THEY CALLED THE POLICE FROM
THAT STORE POLICE AND I'VE PUT
YOU ON MR. IS STILL THERE BUT
IT WAS A MOVING EXPERIENCE WITH
LOTS OF OTHER VISITORS AT THE
TIME YOU VISITED THE PART WHERE
THERE ARE LOTS OF OTHER
VISITORS AT THE TIME?
>> YES, THERE WERE YES THERE
WERE.
YEAH, THERE WAS GREAT.
>> YEAH, IT'S INTERESTING I
DIDN'T GO I JUST DID NOT WANT
TO GO.
>> YEAH BUT FROM WHAT I
UNDERSTAND THAT STORE YOU KNOW
THAT'S WHERE THEY CALLED THE
POLICE FROM AND THE COMMUNITY
IS SORT OF ASKING PEOPLE NOT TO
SHOP THERE BUT IT'S ONE
OF THOSE AREAS WHERE FOOD
DESERT AND THAT'S ONE OF THE
ONLY PLACES TO SHOP.
>> SO IT'S KIND OF SAD
SITUATION.
SO I AM THIS ONE REALLY I WAS
SO BOUND TO MISS THIS ONE I WAS
NOT ABLE TO GO.
I'M CURIOUS ABOUT MRS.
CASTILLO.
WAS SHE ON THE SHE WAS ON THE
AGENDA.
>> I AM REALLY BOTHERED.
SHE WAS ON ONE OF THE PANEL
THAT MUST HAVE MISSED HER.
HER SON AS MENTIONED MENTIONED
OFTEN AS YOU ALL KNOW YOU'VE
HEARD THAT WE PASSED THE
DRIVING EQUALITY ORDINANCE ON
THE SEVEN YEAR ANNIVERSARY
OF HER SON'S KILLING.
SO YEAH, I'M BUMMED I'M REALLY
WELL AND I WANTED TO SEE THE
MEMORIAL AND YEAH, THAT'S I
DIDN'T REALIZE THAT SHE
PROBABLY WOULD HAVE FIGURED OUT
A WAY TO GET THERE TO MEET HER.
SHE DID NOT MINCE WORDS.
SHE WAS UPSET I'M GOING TO MEET
HER ONE DAY SO WELL WOULD SHE
BE OUR SPEAKER FOR SIMPLICITY?
I DON'T KNOW.
I DON'T JUST A SUGGESTION.
>> YEAH I DON'T KNOW.
IT'S A GOOD SUGGESTION.
I THINK IT'S A GOOD I DON'T
KNOW.
>> GO AHEAD.
I HAVE ONE MORE QUESTION.
SURE.
SO I UNFORTUNATELY WASN'T ABLE
TO MAKE THIS CONFERENCE EITHER
BUT I HAVE BEEN TO OTHER NACOLE
CONFERENCES.
I KNOW YOU'VE MENTIONED THE
STATE PREEMPTION ISSUE WHICH
CAME UP AGAIN AND THAT'S BEEN
KICKING AROUND A WHILE AND I
GUESS I'M JUST CURIOUS DO WE
AWARE OF ANY RUMBLINGS WITHIN
OUR STATE LEGISLATURE ABOUT
ENACTING ANYTHING OF THAT
NATURE?
I KNOW SOME STATES HAVE PASSED
LAWS TO PREEMPT ESSENTIALLY
PREEMPT LOCAL AUTHORITY TO
OVERSEE, OVERSEE POLICE.
I MEAN I'M NOT PERSONALLY I
DON'T KNOW IF IT CAME THEY WENT
THROUGH ANY OF THIS SOMETIMES
YOU KNOW, THEY'LL THEY'LL DO
LIKE A STATE BY STATE SURVEY
AND NOW OH NO.
I TRIED TO LIST THE ONES THAT
THEY TALKED ABOUT AND MAYBE
THAT'S SOMETHING THAT WE WE
MIGHT ASK.
I'VE BEEN SAYING I WAS GOING TO
ASK FORMER CHAIR JACKSON TO
COME AND TALK WITH US.
SHE WORKS WITH THE STATE BOARD
AND MAYBE I'LL I'LL CONTACT HER
AND SEE IF I CAN.
I HAVE NOT HEARD OF ANY
RUMBLINGS OF THE STATE
OF MICHIGAN.
I WOULD BE SURPRISED IF THE
STATE OF MICHIGAN DECIDED THEY
WANTED TO PREEMPT OVERSIGHT
COMMISSIONS.
>> OK, SO WHAT'S A GOOD GOOD
CONFERENCE?
I'M GLAD YOU READ THE REPORT
AND HAD QUESTIONS ABOUT IT AND
COMMENTS AND AGAIN HOPEFULLY
NEXT YEAR MORE OF US WILL BE
ABLE TO ATTEND.
>> I DON'T KNOW HOW MANY SAW
THIS ARTICLE.
DETROIT POLICE UNION SUES OVER
NEW LAW FOR BODY DASH CAM .
>> APPARENTLY THE CITY
OF DETROIT HAS DECIDED HAD
PASSED THE ORDINANCE THAT SAID
IF THERE IS A SHOOTING THAT THE
BODY CAM FOOTAGE WOULD BE
RELEASED I THINK IT SAID THIRTY
DAYS WOULD BE RELEASED TO THE
PUBLIC.
YEAH, IN THIRTY DAYS IN CASES
IN CASES INVOLVING GREAT BODILY
HARM AND THE UNION SAID THAT
THAT WOULD VIOLATE THEIR
CONTRACT WITH REGARD TO THE
PRIVACY OF THE OFFICER.
SO THEY THE UNION HAS SUED THE
CITY.
I BRING THAT UP IF ANYBODY
WANTS TO SEE THE ARTICLE IT'S
RIGHT HERE.
I BRING THAT UP BECAUSE NOW
THERE ARE A LOT OF FORCES THAT
ARE OPERATING AT THE SAME TIME
AND I THINK THAT YOU KNOW, IT'S
WHY PREVIOUSLY WE'VE BEEN
INVITED TO WHEN THERE IS A
CONTRACT NEGOTIATIONS GOING ON
TO TO TAKE A LOOK TO BE
INVOLVED TO SOME DEGREE AND
HOPEFULLY THAT WILL CONTINUE.
OK, I HAVE THERE HAVE BEEN
THREE MEETINGS WITH COMPANIES
AND THEY KEPT SAYING OUR ARMS
ARE IMMENSE.
AND I SAID WELL YOU KNOW, MY
DADDY TOLD ME THE ONLY DUMB
QUESTION IS THE ONE YOU DON'T
ASK.
SO I ASKED WHAT'S ARTEMIS
RECORDS MANAGEMENT SYSTEM SO IF
YOU HEAR OUR MISSES WE HAD
THREE COMPANIES THAT CAME IN I
WAS ABLE TO GO TO SORT OF ONE
AND A HALF ONE.
I WAS LATE TO WHAT I WAS THERE
ENOUGH TIME TO ASK QUESTIONS IN
TERMS OF WHAT WE AS IGGY POP
WOULD BE LOOKING FOR IN A
RECORD IN THE NEW RECORDS
MANAGEMENT SYSTEM.
IT DOES APPEAR AS THOUGH WE'RE
GOING TO HAVE A NEW ONE THAT
WILL REPLACE KLEMENS AND WE'RE
HAPPY ABOUT THAT.
>> THE THINGS THAT I TOLD THEM
WE WERE INTERESTED IN WOULD BE
A SYSTEM THAT COULD RECORD AND
BE ABLE TO GET THE DATA BACK ON
TRAFFIC STOPS AGE RACE AND I
MENTIONED YOUR CONCERN ABOUT
EXPANDING THE RACIAL CATEGORIES
GENDER.
HOW MANY PEOPLE WERE IN THE
CAR?
WAS THERE A SEARCH OR WAS THERE
A SEARCH OF THE PASSENGERS, ALL
THAT KIND OF THING AND BOTH
OF THE ONES THAT I ATTENDED
INDICATED THAT THEY WERE ABLE
TO DO THOSE THINGS.
>> SO I DON'T KNOW AND I GUESS
I SORT ADDRESS THIS TO
INFORMATION MANAGERS BUT IS
THAT WHAT WHAT WE NEED IS
ANYTHING ELSE THAT WE NEED
BECAUSE THERE'S STILL NOW
DECIDING THEY'RE GOING TO BE
MAKING A DECISION AND I I SAID
IN IN AN EMAIL TODAY THAT, YOU
KNOW, IF ANY OF THE
COMMISSIONERS HAD ANY INPUT THE
TWO THAT I SAW BOTH OF THEM
SEEM FINE.
SO BUT YOU KNOW AND I AS I SAY,
I TOLD THEM WHAT I THOUGHT WE
WERE LOOKING FOR WITH THE
RECORDS MANAGEMENT SYSTEM.
>> I ALL THE VENDORS CAME OVER
HERE PROBABLY WE HAVE SIMILAR
PRODUCTS.
MANY OF THEM HAVE BEEN IN THE
BUSINESS FOR QUITE AWHILE.
THE RECORDS OR THE THE FIELDS
THAT THEY FILL MANY OF THEM ARE
FIXED BECAUSE THEY ARE BASED ON
WHAT CALLED NABORS WHICH IS
NATIONAL INCIDENT BASED
REPORTING AND THOSE ONES ARE
STANDARD BUT YOU CAN ADD TO FIT
IT'S NOT LIKE ONE SIZE FITS ALL
IF THE POLICE DEPARTMENT OVER
HERE THEY HAVE THEIR OWN THINGS
THEY WANT TO ADD THEY CAN ADD
YOU KNOW, NOT NOT EVERY PLACE
PROBABLY HAVE A MIDDLE EASTERN
NORTH AFRICAN POPULATION OVER
HERE WE HAVE SO WE CAN ADD THAT
THE ISSUE THAT WE HAVE IS
BASICALLY TO LOOK AT THE STOP
TRAFFIC STOPS AND TRAFFIC
STOPS.
CLEVIS GIVES YOU ONE OPTION
OF CHOOSING BUT IT COULD BE A
STOP WITH JUST A VERBAL WARNING
AND MAYBE A TICKET, MAYBE
ARREST, MAYBE SEARCH, MAYBE
IMPOUNDING, MAYBE ARMS BEING
FIREARMS BEING DETECTED,
WHATEVER THEY SEE THOSE THINGS
CAN BE CHECKED.
THEY CAN BE CHECKED AND THE
AGENDA OR THE THE THE THE
ETHNICITY, THE TIME THE PLACE
ON THE DAY OF THE WEEK VACATION
ALL THOSE THINGS CAN BE PLACED
AND THE RECORDS AND FOR US WE
CAN LOOK AT A PARTICULAR TIME
OR A PARTICULAR AGE OR
PARTICULAR DAY OF THE WEEK AND
WE CAN DO ANALYSIS ON THOSE
ONES MUCH BETTER THAN WHAT
CLEMINS IS PROVIDING MUCH
BETTER.
>> AND THE OTHER THING ALSO BE
ABLE TO IMPORT ALL THE OLD
RECORDS OF THE POLICE
DEPARTMENTS HAVE THROUGH MAYBE
ANOTHER SOFTWARE THAT CAN BRING
IN ALL THAT INTO THE NEW SYSTEM
BUT AT LEAST WITH THE NEW
SYSTEM OR THE NEW OCCURRENCES
WILL BE THERE AND YOU CAN DO
ALL THE ANALYSIS YOU WANT.
SO I DON'T THINK THEY CAN GO
WRONG WITH ANY OF THE DEPENDS
ON THE DECISION IN THE CITY AND
WHOEVER IS GOING TO DECIDE I I
ASKED THEM THAT ONE OF THEM
GOING BACK TO NACOLE VERY
QUICKLY ONE OF THE SESSIONS IS
ON EHI AND I DON'T LIKE I DON'T
LIKE ARTIFICIAL INTELLIGENCE
AND I KNOW THAT I KNOW WHERE
THAT LEAVES ME BUT THAT'S OK.
THE THE PEOPLE WHO WERE GIVING
THE PRESENTATION ON A I WERE
SALESPEOPLE FOR ECOMPANIES
RIGHT.
>> AND SO THEY TALKED ABOUT HOW
GREAT IT WAS AND IT WAS YOU ALL
THAT I CAN WRITE A POLICE
REPORT AND YOU KNOW I SAID WE
DON'T WANT A WRITING A POLICE
REPORT
WHAT THE POLICE OFFICER
TO WRITE THE POLICE REPORT AND
THERE WAS I THINK WE PUT IT IN
THE REPORT IN THAT SESSION
THERE WAS SOMETHING ABOUT AN
OFFICER WHO HAD SUBMITTED A
VIDEO OF HIM GETTING ASSAULTED
AND IT WAS ALL I IT WAS ALL
COMPLETELY MADE UP AND YOU KNOW
BUT I CAN DO THAT.
SO WE GOT IT.
WE GOT TO WATCH THAT.
BUT SO THAT WAS ONE OF THE
QUESTIONS THAT I HAD OF THE
VENDORS ABOUT A.I. AND THEY
DON'T THEY DON'T USE IT.
>> OK, ANY OTHER ANY OTHER
QUESTIONS COMMENTS ABOUT THE
NEW AH MS.
NEXT I WANTED TO ASK AGAIN
CONGRATULATE COUNCILWOMAN
HARRISON SOME OF OUR
COMMISSIONERS WERE ABLE TO GO
AND SEE THE RIPPLE IN ANN ARBOR
AT THE MICHIGAN THEATER.
IT WAS VERY WELL ATTENDED AND I
THOUGHT JUST IT WAS AN
EXCELLENT, EXCELLENT FILM ABOUT
WHAT HAD HAPPENED HERE IN ANN
ARBOR.
THANK YOU.
ONE THING ONE QUESTION THAT I
HAD THOUGH WERE THEY STOPPING
IN ON THE STREET?
WAS IT ALL TRAFFIC STOPS?
WERE KNOCKING ON DOORS?
KNOW THAT WASN'T CLEAR TO ME
FOR ALL OF THEM THEY WERE
STOPPING IN ON THE STREET.
THEY WERE PULLING IT OFF
BUSSES, TAKING DOWN THEIR DOORS
LIKE IT WAS THEY WERE SO THEY
WERE GOING DOOR TO DOOR.
I THINK HUTZ ATTORNEY STEINBERG
HIS BABY SITTER WAS AT HOME AND
THE POLICE KNOCKED ON THE DOOR
AND ASKED IF SHE HAD SEEN ANY
BLACK MEN ON THE STREET AND
GAVE THE FLIER OF THIS THE
PROFILE THAT WE'RE LOOKING FOR.
YEAH, IT WAS REALLY BAD.
IT WAS YEAH.
IT WASN'T JUST WASN'T IS
TRAFFIC STOPS WAS IT WAS LIKE
SIX HUNDRED EVERYWHERE HUNDRED
AND THIRTY EIGHT HUNDRED HAD
NEVER QUESTIONED YEAH.
BOYS TO YEAH YEAH BLACK MEN AND
BLACK BOYS YEAH.
>> MADAM GEOMYCES AS WELL.
YES I WAS WATCHING THE MOVIE I
THOUGHT IT WAS A WONDERFUL
PRESENTATION AND COUNCILWOMEN
HARRISON DID A FANTASTIC JOB
OF PRESENTING IT AS WELL.
OUR ONE FACT I THINK THAT WE
NEED TO REMEMBER WAS THAT IT
TOOK A CIRCUIT COURT ORDER FOR
IT TO STOP FOR THE DRAGNET TO
STOP AND ALSO FOR THE RELEASE
OF THE DNA THEY HAD BEEN
COLLECTED BY THE L.A. POLICE
BECAUSE THEY WERE WITHHOLDING
IT AND USING IN ANY WAY THEY
WANTED TO TOOK IT TOOK A
CIRCUIT COURT ORDER MORE COUNTY
CIRCUIT JUDGE CURTIS WOUTER IN
ORDER TO FORCE THE RETURN
OF THAT DENHA OF OF THOSE BLOOD
SAMPLES TO BE RETURNED TO THE
PEOPLE WHO THEY WERE TAKEN FROM
FILM.
YEAH, YEAH.
>> WE HAVE QUITE A HISTORY HERE
IN ANN ARBOR.
YEAH, WE DO.
YEAH.
AND A LOT OF PEOPLE WERE NOT
AWARE THAT THIS HAD OCCURRED.
PEOPLE WHO HAVE LIVED HERE FOR
A COUPLE OF DECADES DIDN'T KNOW
.
SO YEAH, WE DO HAVE QUITE A
HISTORY HERE.
SO THANK YOU FOR POINTING THAT
OUT.
I FOR ONE HOPE THAT OUR COURTS
CONTINUE TO UPHOLD THE LAW AS
WE MOVE INTO UNCHARTED
TERRITORY.
>> PERHAPS ONE OF THE THINGS
TOO THAT I DID WANT TO POINT
OUT IS IT MAY HAVE BEEN SOME
CONFUSION AROUND THIS THAT
DRAGNET DIDN'T OCCUR BETWEEN
1994 WOULD HAPPEN WITHIN A
MATTER OF MONTHS.
IT WAS NOT LIKE FROM NINETY TWO
TO NINETY FOUR IT WAS LIKE LIKE
AT THE END OF THE
INVESTIGATION.
SO ALL OF THOSE MEN AND BOYS
THAT WERE QUESTIONED WERE IT
WAS LIKE LESS THAN A YEAR IT
WAS I I'VE GOT THE RANGE BUT
IT'S A SMALL IT WAS LIKE MONTHS
LIKE THIS HAPPENED THAT THAT
THAT HAPPENED.
>> SO YOU OK THANK YOU.
>> THANK YOU.
NOTE THE QUESTION IS DOES THE
POLICE HAVE THE AUTHORITY TO
LIKE FORCE PEOPLE TO GIVE BLOOD
SAMPLES AND WHAT DOES THE LAW
SAY WE'VE GOT TO DO TO HEAR
FROM THE ENTIRE POLICE
DEPARTMENT.
>> YOU GUYS WANT TO SPEAK ON
THAT AND ANYBODY EITHER ONE
OF YOU I WILL I WILL SAY ABOUT
THAT TIME FRAME THEY WERE
COERCED THING PEOPLE TO GIVE
THEIR BLOOD TO PROVE THEIR
INNOCENCE.
SO IT WAS, YOU KNOW, PRESSURE
THAT WAS PUT ON THE BLACK
COMMUNITY AND THESE INDIVIDUALS
THESE MEN AND BOYS TO UM YEAH.
IT WAS KIND OF LIKE WELL WHY
DON'T YOU PROVE BUT IF YOU
PROVE YOU'RE INNOCENT IT WAS A
YOU DIDN'T DO IT.
THE ANSWER IS NO WHETHER A
SEARCH WARRANT THEY CANNOT TAKE
YOUR BLOOD CORRECT.
>> SO THAT'S RIGHT.
WE HAVE AN ATTORNEY HERE I KEEP
SORRY FOR YOUR OTHER HAT ON.
>> YES.
WHAT MORE THAN WE HAVE IF WE
DO, RIGHT?
YEAH.
YEAH, ABSOLUTELY.
>> AND YOU KNOW WE DON'T HAVE
TO YOU YOU WATCH TV AND THE
POLICE COME TO THE HOUSE.
I SAY WELL COME ON DOWN TO THE
STATION WITH ME AND TALK NO.
AM I UNDER ARREST?
NO.
AND THE COMMUNITY NEEDS TO
UNDERSTAND THOSE RIGHTS THAT WE
STILL HAVE.
>> YES.
AND ON THE SUBJECT OF A RIPPLE
IN ANN ARBOR AND JUST LIKE
THERE HAS BEEN AN OUTPOURING
FROM THE COMMUNITY JUST
REACHING OUT AND TALKING ABOUT
THE THAT EVENT, THE FILM, THE
PEOPLE ARE OVERWHELMED BY THE
APOLOGIES THEY ARE LIKE THAT
JUST DOES NOT HAPPEN.
UM AND IT'S BEEN VERY LIKE
PEOPLE REACHING OUT BECAUSE
IT'S I'M STILL TRYING TO TAKE
IT ALL IN BUT BECAUSE YOU KNOW,
IT WAS IT WAS A VERY HEAVY LIFT
AND A LABOR OF LOVE AND A STORY
THAT NEEDED TO BE TOLD AS WE
YOU KNOW, WE PASSED I MEAN IT'S
REPARATIONS OVER A YEAR AGO AND
UM YOU KNOW AND I WAS SO
LIBERAL AND PROGRESSIVE SO YEAH
I WAS IT WAS AN IMPORTANT STORY
TO TELL.
THERE ARE MANY THAT LIVED
THROUGH IT SUCH AS MYSELF THAT
I REMEMBER WHAT IT THE HALMET
PLACED IN THE BLACK COMMUNITY
UM SO YEAH IT WAS VERY AND A
VERY IMPORTANT STORY TO TELL
AND I'M IT'S GOING TO LIVE IN
PERPETUITY THE ANN ARBOR
DISTRICT LIBRARY AND EVENTUALLY
THEY'LL STAY HERE.
THEY WILL BE FOR THOSE THAT
DIDN'T SEE THE APOLOGY, WEREN'T
ABLE TO MAKE THE EVENT.
THEY'RE GOING TO BE PUTTING THE
APOLOGIES ON THE PANEL
DISCUSSION RIGHT THERE.
THEY'RE GOING TO, YOU KNOW, PUT
IT RIGHT THERE WITH THE FILM IN
PERPETUITY AS WELL SO PEOPLE
CAN WATCH IT JUST AS THEY WERE
AT THE EVENT.
>> SO THE Q THANK YOU VERY MUCH
FOR YOUR FOR YOUR WORK ON THAT
.
OK, PLEASE CONTINUE TO THINK
ABOUT OUR SPRING SYMPOSIUM.
REMEMBER LAST MONTH WE SAID WE
WANT TO HAVE IT AND WE NEED TO
GET A THEME AND MAYBE A SPEAKER
I I DIDN'T SEE ANYBODY THAT WE
MIGHT WANT TO INVITE FROM NACL
.
I WOULD THINK THAT WOULD BE A
FANTASTIC MRS I THINK IT WOULD
BE FANTASTIC TO MISS CASTILLO
HERE SHE DIDN'T PULL ANY
PUNCHES.
>> NO SHE DIDN'T AND HER
LANGUAGE WAS QUITE COLORFUL BUT
SHE WAS HONEST ABOUT WHAT SHE
WENT THROUGH.
I THINK PEOPLE NEED TO HEAR
THAT STORY AND I THINK WHEN
PEOPLE HEAR STORIES LIKE THAT
THEN IT BECOMES REAL PERSONAL
AND THE WORK WE'RE DOING
BECOMES REAL IMPORTANT.
I WOULD LOVE TO SEE HER COME TO
MICHIGAN.
I THINK SHE'D COME TO I THINK
SHE PROBABLY WOULD.
ALL RIGHT.
IS THERE ANYBODY CHAIRING THIS
SYMPOSIUM WE PART DO WE HAVE A
CHAIR FOR THE FOR THE SYMPOSIUM
FOR THE OUTREACH IS THAT
OUTREACH COMMITTEE?
THAT'S THE OUTREACH COMMITTEE,
YES.
YEAH.
DO YOU HAVE A CHAIR FOR THE
OUTREACH COMMITTEE?
YES MA'AM I DO.
OH NO NO IT WASN'T HER I FORGOT
OR NEGLIGENT I HEAR WHEN A
CLARIFICATION AT THE LAST
COMMISSION MEETING YOU GUYS
VOTED FOR COMMISSIONER AND I TO
WORK TOGETHER ON THE OUTREACH
COMMITTEE.
>> SO COMMISSIONER LOU IS THE
ONLY ONE ABOUT WITH MY
ASSISTANCE.
>> ALL RIGHT.
WELL WE'LL CONTINUE TO TALK
ABOUT IT AND I THINK WE CAN
STILL HAVE THAT PART OF OUR
PLANNING COMMITTEE.
>> SHE ALSO HAS AN UPDATE FOR
THE OUTREACH COMMITTEE TODAY.
OH YEAH.
YEAH, SHE HAS HER OWN UPDATE.
I LOOK AT THAT.
>> ALL RIGHT, COMMISSIONER.
>> GOOD TO GO ALREADY.
I THINK I THINK I THINK SHE
JUST VOLUNTEERED TO DO THE
MARKETING ON SOCIAL MEDIA, NOT
NECESSARILY PUT THE EVENT TO BE
A FAIR BUT JUST SAID YEAH, OK.
I THOUGHT I HAD ON I'M STILL IN
LONG REPORT BUT I WAS GOING TO
NEXT TALK ABOUT THE POLICY
COMMITTEE AND NOT NECESSARILY
ASK FOR THE REPORT NOW BUT THEY
CAN REPORT IF YOU WANT TO.
>> I WANT TO EXPRESS
APPRECIATION
TO THE POLICY
COMMITTEE.
THEY WENT THROUGH ALL THE
POLICIES LIKE WE ASKED THEM TO
DO AND AND SOME BUT I SHOULD
SAY THOUGH THAT WE WERE ONLY
HALF DONE ACTUALLY WE ONLY WENT
THROUGH HALF OF THEM SO OH SO
THANK YOU FOR THE HELP THAT YOU
BUT IT WILL CONTINUE.
>> YEAH.
NOW DID EVERYBODY GET A CHANCE
TO GET LET ME JUST CHANGE
THINGS AROUND AND ASK THE
POLICY COMMITTEE TO GIVE YOU A
REPORT NOW YOU'RE IN THE MIDDLE
OF SOMETHING ELSE.
OTHERS COMMISSIONER LEWIS TIME
AND WHATEVER WHATEVER SHE LIKE
SO AND I JUST WANT TO GO WE WE
DID YOU KNOW WE DID A
THOROUGHGOING REPORT.
WE'VE GOT THE POWERPOINT.
THE SUMMARIES ARE ATTACHED IN
YOUR BACK AND SO WHAT I REALLY
THOUGHT I WOULD DO TONIGHT IS
JUST OVER JUST TO THE SUMMARY
AND MAYBE JUST A COUPLE
OF THINGS THAT MAYBE WEREN'T IN
THE SUMMARY AND THEN JUST OPEN
IT UP TO ANY QUESTIONS OR ANY
DISCUSSION WE MAY HAVE.
BUT SO FIRST OF ALL, I MEAN WE
REVIEWED WE REVIEWED MORE THAN
ONE THIRTY POLICIES I ESTIMATED
AND APPROXIMATELY HALF THEIR
NUMBERED KIND OF IN A WEIRD WAY
BUT IT'S SO IT'S FROM ZERO ZERO
ONE ZERO ZERO ONE TWO ZERO FOUR
ONE TWO ZERO FOUR OR FIVE AS IT
TURNS OUT WE ACTUALLY DON'T
HAVE A LOT OF COMMENTS OR
CRITICISMS REGARDING MOST
OF THE POLICIES AND THAT'S AT
LEAST I THINK IN PART BECAUSE
THE FIRM GOES THROUGH THEM AND
THEY NOTE WHEN THE LAST TIME
THEY'VE BEEN REVIEWED AND IT
APPEARS THAT OF THE ONES THAT
WE'VE LOOKED AT SO FAR AND AT
SOME POINT OR OTHER DURING 2025
MOST THOUGH CERTAINLY NOT ALL
THE POLICIES HAVE BEEN REVIEWED
AND AND NOT NECESSARILY REVISED
BUT THEY YOU KNOW, SO ONE
OF OUR QUESTIONS IS YOU KNOW
WHAT IS THE WHAT'S THE PROTOCOL
FOR HOW HOW OFTEN POLICIES ARE
REVIEWED AND AND AND WHY AND
WHAT NECESSITATES MODIFICATIONS
BUT SO YOU KNOW, WE WENT
THROUGH A LOT OF POLICIES AND
JUST SAID NO COMMENT.
THERE'S ONE THING IN MY SUMMARY
THAT I JUST WANTED TO POINT OUT
AND THAT SOMEBODY WARNED KAMRAS
BECAUSE I HAD DONE YOU KNOW,
SPENT A LOT OF TIME IN ONE
OF OUR MEETINGS A YEAR OR TWO
AGO AND TALKED ABOUT SOME
DISCREPANCIES WE THOUGHT OR
THAT IT DIDN'T SEEM THAT IT
APPEARED THAT MAYBE SOME OF THE
POLICIES DIDN'T DIDN'T COINCIDE
WITH ACTUAL PROTOCOLS AND MAYBE
THEY COULD LOOK AT THAT.
AND I KNOW THAT THE POLICY'S
BEEN REVISED IN 2025 BUT ALL
THE SECTIONS THAT I MENTIONED
SEEM TO HAVE BEEN LEFT ALONE.
THERE MIGHT BE SOMETHING ELSE
WITHIN THAT SECTION THAT
CHANGES IT BUT I DIDN'T NOTICE
THAT.
BUT I'LL JUST LEAVE THAT ASIDE
FOR NOW AND SEE WHAT ELSE IT
VERY HELPFULLY EVERY POLICY
SITES AT THE TOP OF EACH PAGE
WHEN WHO WAS THE WHO WAS THE
CHIEF OR INTERIM CHIEF AT THE
TIME THAT POLICY WAS ISSUED AND
OR UPDATED AND THEN IN SOME
CASES WHAT'S THE EFFECTIVE DATE
WHICH OCCASIONALLY I WAS A
LITTLE CONFUSED BY IT.
SO THAT'S A QUESTION WE HAVE
FOR APARTMENT.
I'M NOT SURE WHAT THE
INTERRELATIONSHIP NECESSARILY
IS AMONG THOSE TERMS BECAUSE
SOME OF THE SOME OF THE
POLICIES IT SEEMED TO INDICATE
THE EFFECTIVE DATE OF IT WAS A
DATE IT DIDN'T COINCIDE WITH
WHEN THE LISTED INTERIM OR
CURRENT CHIEF WAS WAS ACTUALLY
SERVING THEIR TENURE.
SO MAYBE MAYBE IT'S JUST MY
CONFUSION BUT I THINK IT NEEDS
SOME CLARIFICATION AND THEN
FINALLY I GUESS YOU KNOW,
CLEARLY SOME OF THESE POLICIES
ARE TECHNICAL ENOUGH IN NATURE
THAT YOU KNOW US AS
COMMISSIONERS WE'RE NOT REALLY
IN THE BEST POSITION TO TO
REVIEW THEM FOR SUBSTANCE.
BUT BUT WE HAVE ATTEMPTED TO
SORT OF USE OUR COMMON SENSE IN
SOME OF THOSE TO PROVIDE
SUBSTANTIVE COMMENTS COME AS
WELL.
ALSO REVIEWING THE POLICY AS TO
FORM AND YOU KNOW, WE HAVE
FOUND A LOT OF TYPOS AND OTHER
SORT OF YOU KNOW, GRAMMATICAL
YOU KNOW, VERY MINOR, VERY
MINOR THINGS I GUESS FINALLY
AND THIS IS IN THE SUMMARY BUT
A COUPLE OF THINGS OCCURRED TO
ME, YOU KNOW AND COMMISSIONER
OUTMAN AND I HAD A AT A
DISCUSSION AND I KNOW THAT A
COUPLE OF QUESTIONS THAT BUT
YOU RAISED A COUPLE OF POINTS
THAT MADE ME THINK OF SOMETHING
AS WELL AS THE NACOLE REPORT
THAT YOU'RE NOT REMEMBERING NOW
WHAT EXACTLY IS IN THE NACOLE
REPORT THAT HIGHLIGHTED THIS
ISSUE FOR ME.
BUT IT MADE ME THINK THAT I'M
NOT SURE THAT WE AND MAYBE
COMMISSIONER WHO DID GIVE MORE
THOUGHT TO THIS AND THEN I
MIGHT HAVE BUT AS AS I WENT
THROUGH IT, I'M NOT SURE THAT I
GAVE ENOUGH THOUGHT TO WHAT
MIGHT BE MISSING.
I MEAN WE LOOKED AT WHAT WAS
THERE AND DEALT WITH THAT BUT
IT MIGHT BEHOOVE US TO GO BACK
AT LEAST IN SOME OF THE CASES
AND SAY WELL, WHAT'S HERE IS
FINE BUT WHAT'S MISSING AND I
THINK I THINK THAT SOME OF THE
THINGS THAT YOU THAT YOU
COMMENTED ON PROBABLY DID
ADDRESS THAT WHEN YOU WHEN YOU
FOUND IT.
BUT I'M NOT SURE I'VE SPENT
ENOUGH TIME THINKING ABOUT THAT
ALL THE TIME WHEN I WENT
THROUGH IT AND THEN FINALLY
HAVING MENTIONED THE THE BODY
WORN CAMERA, I JUST WANT TO
ALSO I THINK IT'S IMPORTANT TO
ACKNOWLEDGE WITH RESPECT TO
BODY CAMERAS THAT IT SEEMS TO
ME WE'RE ASKING OFFICERS TO DO
SOMETHING THAT NOT VERY MANY
OF US, YOU KNOW, WOULD
APPRECIATE HAVING TO DO ON OUR
OWN IN OUR OWN WORKPLACES.
BUT AND AS COMMISSIONER
OF ARTHUR AND I TALKED ABOUT HE
POINTED OUT THAT I MEAN
CERTAINLY IN SOME CASES IT
PROTECTS PROTECTS THE OFFICERS
AS WELL.
SO SO I UNDERSTAND THAT.
BUT I JUST I JUST WANT TO YOU
KNOW, I I THINK IT'S A VERY
IMPORTANT ISSUE AND THAT'S WHY
I RAISED IT.
I LOOKED AT THAT AGAIN.
IT TOOK SO LONG SO LONG SECTION
BUT I JUST WANTED TO I JUST
WANTED TO MENTION IT.
DID YOU HAVE ANYTHING TO ADD OR
SUBTRACT MAYBE YOU WANT TO
SUBTRACT FROM THAT.
OK, SO I'LL JUST OPEN IT UP TO
ANY ANY ANY QUESTIONS OR
COMMENTS I YOU AS I SAY WE'LL I
FRANKLY HAVEN'T LOOKED AT ANY
ANY OF THE POLICIES SINCE WE
FELT I FINISHED THIS REPORT BUT
WE'LL GET WE'LL THAT WE'LL GET
INTO IT AFTER THE HOLIDAYS AND
HOPEFULLY FINISH IT UP NEXT
YEAR.
>> SO I WAS THINKING AS I WAS
YOU KNOW, READING THE REPORT
THERE, WHAT WE MIGHT CONSIDER
DOING IS I DON'T KNOW IF WE
WANT TO I WOULD SUGGEST WE WAIT
UNTIL YOU'VE FINISHED BUT IF
THE COMMISSION LOOKS AT THE
RECOMMENDATIONS AND THEN WE
PASS IT ON AS A COMMISSION TO
THE DEPARTMENT FOR
RECOMMENDATION RATHER THAN ANY
KIND OF PIECEMEAL OR ASKING HIM
ANY QUESTIONS THAT YOU WILL
HAVE COME UP WITH, I THINK ONE
OF THE POINTS THAT OR READING
OF WHICH SOMEHOW YOU MISS
MISSED AND MANY MEETINGS
COMMISSIONER MILGRAM MYSELF
TALKED ABOUT SOME OF THESE
POLICIES AND WE THOUGHT THAT
NEXT TIME WHEN WE MEET WITH THE
CHIEF WE CAN BRING SOME
OF THOSE ISSUES AND DISCUSS
WITH HIM BECAUSE SINCE WE HAVE
THESE REGULAR MEETINGS HE CAN
ADDRESS SOME OF THESE QUESTIONS
THAT WE HAVE ABOUT SOME
OF THESE POLICIES IN REGARD TO
BODY ON CAMERA.
>> YES, IT IT IS IMPORTANT TO
HAVE THAT ON AND THERE ARE
CERTAIN CIRCUMSTANCES WHERE
THEY CAN BE TURNED OFF.
YOU KNOW, POLICE IS HAVING A
LUNCH OR HAVING A CUP OF COFFEE
OR SOMETHING LIKE THAT OR
HAVING A REGULAR ENCOUNTER WITH
THE PUBLIC.
BUT WHAT IF A SITUATION ARISES
WHERE NOW YOU HAVE TO DEAL WITH
A SITUATION AND YOU FORGOT THAT
YOU HAVE YOUR CAMERA ON AND YOU
DID NOT TURN IT ON AND THIS
GOES ON FOR A WHILE AND I DON'T
THINK OF THE CIRCUMSTANCE IS
WHAT WOULD GIVE YOU THE THE
CLEAR MIND TO OH YEAH.
NOW I REMEMBER I TALKED TO TURN
IT ON SO EVEN EVEN IF IT'S NOT
GOING TO LEAD TO ANY SUBSTANCE
BUT AT LEAST HAVE IT ON IN CASE
OF A SITUATION LIKE THAT AND
AGAIN IT WOULD PROTECT THE
PUBLIC AS WELL AS ALSO THE
POLICE OFFICERS IN CASE IF
THERE IS ANY KIND OF COMPLAINT
OR AN ISSUE THAT WHAT WOULD BE
HAPPENING.
THE OTHER THING WE TALKED ABOUT
WAS SOME OF THE POLICIES ARE
QUITE TECHNICAL AND THIS IS WHY
YOU COULD SEE MANY OF THE
SLIDES, THE POWERPOINT WHERE
THEY HAVE NO COMMENTS AND AGAIN
WE DON'T HAVE THE EXPERIENCE TO
DO THAT.
BUT I THINK POLICIES AND YOU
TALKED ABOUT THE CULTURE THE
POLICIES ARE REALLY IMPORTANT
AND EFFECTIVE AS LONG AS THEY
ARE ADHERED TO AND EXERCISED BY
THE OFFICERS, YOU COULD HAVE A
GREAT CONSTITUTION, GREAT LAW
AND ALL THESE THINGS AND YOU
HAVE A DICTATOR.
WHAT IS THE VALUE OF HAVING ALL
THESE NICE WORDS
AND ARTICLES?
SO I THINK I THINK THE WE KNOW
THAT THE POLICIES OVER HERE ARE
BEING REVIEWED OFTEN BECAUSE
THE DEPARTMENTS ARE BEING
ACCREDITED BY MANY AGENCIES AND
THEY HAVE TO REALLY FOLLOW ALL
THE RECOMMENDATIONS AND
SUGGESTIONS AND THEIR POLICIES
.
BUT AGAIN THE POLICIES ARE AS
IMPORTANT NOT ONLY THROUGH
TRAINING BUT ALSO EXERCISING
THOSE POLICIES AND MAKING SURE
THAT THEY ARE BEING FAITHFULLY
EXECUTED.
>> I AND I UNDERSTAND WHAT WHAT
YOUR POSITION IS WITH REGARD TO
ADDRESSING THE POLICIES TO ME
ON A PIECEMEAL PIECEMEAL BASIS
.
>> I I WOULD ACTUALLY PREFER TO
HAVE A REPORT WITH THE POLICY
WITH WITH OUR RECOMMENDATIONS
AFTER A COMPLETE REVIEW AND AT
THAT POINT GO TO THE CHIEF AND
SAY WE'VE REVIEWED THE POLICIES
AND THIS IS WHAT WE THINK.
>> THAT'S SO IT'S NOT SOMETHING
WE HAVE TO DECIDE NOW BUT ANY
IDEA WHEN YOU MIGHT HAVE THE
REST OF THEM DONE?
I'M NOT TRYING TO I TRY TO RUSH
YOU.
>> I'M JUST WONDERING.
ANY IDEA WHEN YOU MIGHT BE THEM
?
>> CERTAINLY NOT OVER THE
HOLIDAYS.
>> I'LL SAY THAT WE WOULDN'T
HAVE GOTTEN THIS FAR WITHOUT
COMMISSIONER PUSHING ME.
SHE FINISHED HER PORTION WELL
BEFORE I DID SO BUT I MEAN I
WILL COMMIT RIGHT NOW IN PUBLIC
TO FINISHING IT BEFORE THE END
OF MY TERM AND HOPEFULLY BEFORE
THAT WHICH IS I THINK YOU KNOW
AND IN JUNE BUT MAY SO BUT IT
SHOULD BE BEFORE BEFORE THAT
NEXT NEXT YEAR SOMETIME AS YOU
KNOW YOU KNOW I'M OUT I'M OUT
OF THE STATE FOR TWO MONTHS AND
I'M GOING TO MISS I'M GOING TO
MISS THOSE TWO MEETINGS BECAUSE
I MEAN I CAN'T WORK ON IT WHEN
I'M GONE BUT IT'S NOT LIKELY OK
.
I'M SURE I'M SCRATCHING MY HEAD
WITH PALESTINIAN MICHAI IN
REFERENCE TO THE POLICIES AND
WAITING FOR A REPORT TO BE
DONE.
IS IT NOT SOMETHING THAT WE CAN
HAVE A CONVERSATION ABOUT?
I GUESS MY THOUGHT IS EVERY DAY
A SITUATION CAN OCCUR AND THEN
WE HAVE AN ADDRESS THE POLICY
THAT I HAVE I HAVE A CONCERN ON
THAT PROBABLY COULD HAVE BEEN
ADDRESSED BECAUSE WE'RE WAITING
TO DO IT ALL IN ONE TYPE
OF SETTING IN I GUESS THAT'S MY
BIGGEST FEAR LIKE WAITING TO
ADDRESS SOMETHING THAT EVERYDAY
LIFE HAPPENS AND IT COULD
HAPPEN ON THAT POLICY THAT WE
DIDN'T TALK ABOUT OR HAVE A SIT
DOWN ABOUT.
I APPRECIATE THAT.
CERTAINLY THAT'S CONSIDERATION.
I THINK THAT'S A GOOD POINT.
BUT I MEAN IS THERE ONE IS
THERE SOMETHING IN PARTICULAR
THAT YOU SAW BECAUSE OFF THE
TOP OF MY HEAD I DON'T KNOW
THAT ANYTHING IS LIKE AN
EXIGENT EMERGENT SITUATION THAT
WOULD REQUIRE OH, WE BETTER YOU
KNOW, WE BETTER PASS THIS OVER
TO THE DEPARTMENT BEFORE
SOMETHING HAPPENS FRANKLY.
SO I MEAN I HEAR WHAT YOU'RE
SAYING BUT I'M NOT SURE THAT I
WAS COMMISSIONER.
YOU CAN THINK OF SOMETHING THAT
YOU KNOW, IT'S URGENT.
WE SHOULD MAKE SURE WE GET THIS
PARTICULAR THING OVER TO THEM
ASAP AND WE MIGHT PICK OUT A
COUPLE OF THINGS IF WE GO BACK
THROUGH IT WITH THAT IN MIND
AND THERE MIGHT BE A FEW THINGS
THAT WE SAY WE'RE STILL DOING A
REVIEW BUT YOU KNOW, WE WANT TO
LOOK AT THESE THESE ARE MORE WE
COULD DO THAT MORE URGENT YOU
WANT TO DO A FEW THAT YOU MIGHT
WANT TO DEAL WITH.
>> OK, THANK YOU AND THANK YOU
AGAIN TO THE POLICY COMMITTEE
COMMITTEE REMINDER WE'RE GOING
TO BE WORKING ON OUR ANNUAL
REPORT FOR 2025.
THIS OF COURSE IS OUR LAST
MEETING OF THE YEAR.
WE DO NOT MEET IN DECEMBER AND
SO PLEASE TRY TO PUT TOGETHER A
SUMMARY IF YOU WEREN'T ON A
COMMITTEE BUT YOU DID SOMETHING
OR SAW SOMETHING THAT YOU
THOUGHT THAT YOU THINK WOULD BE
GOOD TO HAVE IN OUR ANNUAL
REPORT.
PLEASE START THINKING ABOUT
THAT JANUARY ARE GOING TO START
PUTTING IT TOGETHER SO THAT IT
GETS ALL THAT I HAVE.
ARE YOU SAYING GOOD BECAUSE
THAT WAS LONG.
>> OK REPORT FROM COMMITTEES
THE POLICY COMMITTEE HAS
ALREADY REPORTED AND ANYTHING
ELSE YOU WANT TO ADD?
NO BUSINESS OR DID I SKIP ALL
BUSINESS AND OK I DON'T HAVE
ANY NO AND WE DO HAVE A
BUSINESS WE HAVE THE OK FOR OUR
NEW BUSINESS PLEASE TAKE A LOOK
AT THE CALENDAR THAT'S ATTACHED
TO YOUR AGENDA.
>> THIS GUY.
SO THIS IS THE TWENTY TWENTY
SIXTH CALENDAR FOR THE
COMMISSION.
THE ONLY DATE THAT WOULD NEED
TO BE CHANGED IS HIGHLIGHTED
THE CALENDAR MADE TWENTY SIX
TWENTY TWENTY SIX.
I DON'T WANT TO ANNOUNCE THE
HOLIDAY WRONG BUT IT IS THE
ADHI WHICH IS AN ABSURD HOLIDAY
THAT THE CITY HAS.
>> SO IF YOU GUYS WOULD LIKE TO
MEET THE DAY BEFORE OR THE DAY
AFTER OR THE WEEK BEFORE.
>> YEAH THAT TOO MOM AND I'M
GLAD YOU SAID THAT THE WEEK
BEFORE THE WEEK.
>> NO, I DON'T THINK THERE'S A
WEEK AFTER SO WHAT WOULD THE
DATE BE THE WEEK THE TUESDAY
BEFORE SO THE TUESDAY BEFORE
YEP.
IS MAY 19TH
.
>> SO IS THERE ANY COMMENT AT
ALL ABOUT THE MAY 19TH MEETING
?
>> THAT WILL BE MY LAST MEETING
AS WELL AND YOU CAN THINK WE'RE
GOING TO THREE.
WELL YEAH YOU CAN.
NINETY DAYS SHE'LL BE AT THE
JUNE MEETING.
YOU GUYS DON'T WRITE BUT I
WON'T BE CHAIR OR YOU SIMPLY
CHAIR INSTEAD OF TALKING TO THE
CHAIR.
>> JUST GOING TO HAVE ELECTIONS
IN MAY THAT I THINK WE MIGHT
HAVE ELECTIONS ON JUNE ANYWAY.
THAT'S THAT'S GOING TO BE AN
IMPORTANT MEETING.
SO YOU YOU WANT TO MOVE IT UP A
NINETEEN UP ONE WEEK TO MAY THE
NINETEENTH RATHER THAN THE
TWENTY SIX.
ANYBODY GOT ANY PLANS FOR THE
NINETEEN.
ALL RIGHT.
>> IS THERE A MOTION TO CHANGE
THE DATE OF THE MAY TWENTY
TWENTY SIX MEETING FROM THE
TWENTY SIX TO THE NINETEENTH ON
ACCOUNT OF A HOLIDAY THAT DAY
AS A RULE IS THERE A SECOND I
CIRCUIT ALL IN ANY DISCUSSION
ALL IN FAVOR.
VERY GOOD WE'VE DONE THAT SO
PLEASE PUT THESE DATES ON YOUR
CALENDARS, TRY TO WORK AROUND
THEM IF YOU HAVE YOU'RE GOING
TO BE OUT OF TOWN.
>> I WILL BE SUBMITTING A NEW
AND UPDATED CALENDAR.
SO WHEN THAT DOES GO OUT PLEASE
MAKE SURE THAT YOU ACCEPT AND
THE CALENDAR AND THE CALENDAR
PDF WILL BE INCLUDED IN IT.
>> OK, THANK YOU.
OK NOW THAT I'M HERE MY
TRAINING'S OK.
SO THAT WAS OUR ONLY NEW
BUSINESS TRAINING COMMITTEE.
>> COMMISSIONER HAYNES IS NOT
HERE BUT WANTED TO KEEP AN
UPDATE THAT WE HAVE FOUR
COMMISSIONERS RIGHT NOW
INTERESTED IN DOING RIGHT ALONG
WITH APD.
THOSE WILL BE SCHEDULED IN
JANUARY.
SO PLEASE BE ON THE LOOKOUT FOR
AN EMAIL ASKING ABOUT YOUR
AVAILABILITY AT THE BEGINNING
OF THE YEAR TO DO THE RIGHT
ALONG.
ALSO WANTED TO MAKE A NOTE THAT
THESE RIGHT ALONG DO NOT NEED
TO BE TAKEN AS A GROUP.
YOU CAN DO IT AT A TIME THAT IS
DIFFERENT FROM EVERYONE ELSE.
ASK HOW MANY HOURS IS THE RIDE
ALONG WITH IT FOR SIX HOURS
OVER FOUR HOURS.
HERE WE GO.
>> THANK YOU.
GOOD EVENING EDDIE.
I REMEMBER PROFESSIONAL
STANDARDS REGARDING THE RIGHT
ALONG THAT WE'RE WORKING ON
SETTING UP FOR EVERYBODY THAT
CAN BE ANY PERIOD OF TIME THAT
YOU HAVE AVAILABLE THAT YOU
WOULD LIKE TO DO THE RIDE
ALONG.
YOU CAN ALSO GET THERE WITHIN
ANY PORTION OF THE SHIFT.
YOU DON'T HAVE TO BE THERE
RIGHT WHEN THE SHIFT STARTS
WHICH YOU REPORT TO THE STATION
THE OFFICER THAT YOU WOULD BE
ASSIGNED TO CAN RESPOND BACK TO
THE STATION TO PICK YOU UP.
YOU CAN RIDE WITH THEM FOR A
PERIOD OF TIME THAT YOU HAVE
AVAILABLE AND THEN AT ANY POINT
YOU CAN AND THE RIDE ALONG SO
IT DOESN'T HAVE TO BE A SET
TIME FRAME.
>> THANK YOU.
>> SO I I KNOW THAT EVERYBODY
GOT THE EMAIL FROM COMMINS IF
YOU WANT TO RIDE ALONG I THINK
I'M DOING OK SINCE THE TIME IS
A LITTLE BIT OK BUT YOU
DOWNLOAD OUR SHOW EXCEPT I
THOUGHT YOU DID YOU SAY YES YOU
KNOW AND THAT'LL GIVE US AN
IDEA OF WHAT THE OFFICERS GO
THROUGH ON US ON A SHIP BEFORE
FILO AND I HAVE YES OK SO
THAT'S FIVE OK NOW I'LL REACH
COMMITTEE COMMISSIONER LOU.
YES THAT'S COMING AND I MET A
FEW WEEKS AGO AND WE DECIDED ON
THE LOGISTICS FOR SOCIAL MEDIA
AND OUTREACH FOR THE COMMUNITY
AND WHAT WE'RE GONNA DO IS ONE
MONTHLY REMINDER POST MEETING
REMINDER POST ON INSTAGRAM AND
TWITTER.
WE DON'T HAVE A FACEBOOK
ACCOUNT AND I WOULD LIKE TO ASK
IF YOU GUYS ARE INTERESTED IN
CREATING A FACEBOOK ACCOUNT
BECAUSE THE AUDIENCE WOULD
ATTRACT WOULD BE DIFFERENT THAN
INSTAGRAM AND X USERS ACCESS
TWITTER
.
YES, YEAH.
OK, WHAT DO WE PUT IN MOTION
THAT COMMISSIONER OK I THOUGHT
WE HAD ONE OK SO WOULD YOU
COMMISSIONER DO YOU WANT TO YOU
WANT TO MOVE THAT THE
COMMISSION SET UP A FACEBOOK
PAGE AND HAVE YOU DO IT.
>> YOU SURE.
SURE.
OK SO THAT THAT'S BEEN MOVED
THAT THE COMMISSION SET UP A
FACEBOOK PAGE FOR OUR MONTHLY
ANNOUNCEMENTS.
IS THERE A SECOND ARGUMENT OK
OK.
>> AND THEN SO THAT WILL BE
EVERY MONTH.
WELL OK WE WILL GET A VOTE IS
THERE ANY DISCUSSION I DO
OF COURSE IN REFERENCE TO BOTH
SOCIAL MEDIA WITH THE SOCIAL
MEDIA FOR EXAMPLE FACEBOOK
IT'LL BE THE SAME AS SET UP THE
SAME AS FAR AS WITH THE
INSTAGRAM TWITTERS HOW THEY'RE
GOING TO BE SET UP AND PUTTING
OUT MONTHLY BLAST AS FAR AS
MEETINGS AND SUCH AS WELL OK
I'LL BE THE SAME ACROSS SO OK
ANY OTHER QUESTIONS COMMENTS
THE MOTION HAS BEEN MOVED AND
SECONDED THAT IF FOX SET UP A
FACEBOOK PAGE TO BE HANDLED BY
OUR OUTREACH COMMITTEE NO OTHER
NO OTHER COMMENTS OR QUESTIONS
ALL IN FAVOR ANY POST THE
MOTION PASSES.
OK NOW COMMISSIONER.
SO TO SUMMARIZE, WE'RE GOING TO
HAVE FOUR DIFFERENT TYPES
OF POST.
ONE IS THE MONTHLY MEETING
REMINDER THAT I JUST MENTIONED
WHICH WILL BE TWO WEEKS IN
ADVANCE OF OUR MONTHLY MEETING
TO GIVE PEOPLE TIME TO PUT ON
THEIR CALENDARS AND ATTEND IF
THEY WANT TO ANSWER ANY
QUESTIONS AND THEN BEGINNING
NEXT YEAR WE WILL DO A MONTHLY
INTERACTIVE COMMUNITY OUTREACH
POST POLLING WHICH WOULD BE A
WEEK BEFORE THE MEETING
REMINDER.
SO WEEK TWO OF THE MONTH AND
THEN THIS IS TO SEE WHAT THE
COMMUNITY IS INTERESTED ABOUT
AND THEN WE WILL DO MONTHLY
HOLIDAYS, BIRTHDAYS AND SPECIAL
OCCASION POST AND THEN IF THERE
ARE ANY UPCOMING EVENTS WE CAN
ADVERTISE IT BEFORE THE EVENT
DATE AND THEN FOR POLLING
QUESTIONS WE WILL ASK WHAT IF
PEOPLE ARE INTERESTED IN THE
ISSUES THAT WE DISCUSSED DURING
THESE MEETINGS, WHAT THEY WOULD
LIKE TO KNOW ABOUT THE
COMMISSIONERS AND COMMUNITY
TOPICS OF INTEREST AND IF YOU
GUYS ARE OK WITH IT I KNOW
COMMISSIONER MILGROM SENT HIS
PROFILE OVER A WHILE BACK.
WE WOULD START THAT IN JANUARY
AND THEN YOU CAN JUST INCLUDE A
I WILL ALSO SEND OUT AN EMAIL
BUT LIKE A PARAGRAPH OF YOUR
PROFILE OR BIO AND THEN ONE OR
TWO PICTURES TO PUBLISH ON THE
PLATFORMS TO GET THE COMMUNITY
TO KNOW ABOUT YOU GUYS AND THEN
WE CAN DO A Q ONE AS WELL ON
THE SOCIAL MEDIA PAGES AND THEN
WE CAN ALSO DO HIGHLIGHTS
OF EACH SUBCOMMITTEE EACH MONTH
AND THESE HIGHLIGHTS WOULD BE I
WOULD LIKE TO START WITH THREE
OF THE SAME QUESTIONS FOR EACH
COMMITTEE SUBCOMMITTEE TO MAKE
THEM THE SAME BUT THEY WOULD BE
WHAT IS THE SUBCOMMITTEE'S MAIN
RESPONSIBILITY?
WHO ARE THE COMMISSIONERS THAT
LEAD THIS SUBCOMMITTEE AND WHAT
ARE WHAT ARE THE GOALS OF THIS
SUBCOMMITTEE FOR THIS YEAR?
>> SOUNDS VERY GOOD.
IS THERE ANYBODY WHO WANTS TO
WORK WITH COMMISSIONER LEW ON
THIS PROJECT OF GETTING US ON
EXCELLENT.
THANK YOU.
OH, SEND ME AN EMAIL.
EXCELLENT.
WELL, THANK THANK YOU VERY
OH, SEND ME AN EMAIL.
MUCH.
WELL, THANK THANK YOU VERY
OK, ALL RIGHT.
MUCH.
I'M NOW THE PLANNING COMMITTEE
OK, ALL RIGHT.
.
I'M NOW THE PLANNING COMMITTEE
>> OK, WE'RE GOING TO PASS THAT
.
INFORMATION MANAGERS UH A FEW
>> OK, WE'RE GOING TO PASS THAT
THINGS.
INFORMATION MANAGERS UH A FEW
ONE IS I DID ADDRESS THE CITY
THINGS.
COUNCIL.
ONE IS I DID ADDRESS THE CITY
THE NOVEMBER SIX CHAIR WAS
COUNCIL.
AVAILABLE TO DO THAT WAS QUITE
THE NOVEMBER SIX CHAIR WAS
AN EXPERIENCE IN PERSON.
AVAILABLE TO DO THAT WAS QUITE
THE FIRST TIME I ADDRESSED THAT
AN EXPERIENCE IN PERSON.
WAS UZU AND I HAD SEVERAL
THE FIRST TIME I ADDRESSED THAT
THINGS REPORTED TO THE COUNCIL
WAS UZU AND I HAD SEVERAL
AND I PROBABLY WOULD WANT TO
THINGS REPORTED TO THE COUNCIL
KNOW FROM THE SCIENCE ABOUT ONE
AND I PROBABLY WOULD WANT TO
OF THE ISSUES IN REGARD TO WE
KNOW FROM THE SCIENCE ABOUT ONE
HAD THE CANDIDATE THE HIS NAME
OF THE ISSUES IN REGARD TO WE
WAS BROUGHT TO COUNCIL AND IF
HAD THE CANDIDATE THE HIS NAME
THERE WAS ANY UPDATE ON WHETHER
WAS BROUGHT TO COUNCIL AND IF
OR NOT THE IS GOING TO BE
THERE WAS ANY UPDATE ON WHETHER
RECOMMENDED OR NOT OR WHEN SO
OR NOT THE IS GOING TO BE
WE DON'T HAVE GAPS IN OUR
RECOMMENDED OR NOT OR WHEN SO
COMMISSION.
WE DON'T HAVE GAPS IN OUR
SO ANY ANY WORD THAT I'LL TAKE
COMMISSION.
CARE OF THAT WITHIN TWENTY FOUR
SO ANY ANY WORD THAT I'LL TAKE
HOURS.
CARE OF THAT WITHIN TWENTY FOUR
RIGHT.
HOURS.
OK, OK.
RIGHT.
THE YEAH WE'LL WE'LL TAKE CARE
OK, OK.
OF IT OK THANK YOU.
THE YEAH WE'LL WE'LL TAKE CARE
>> THERE'S BEEN A COUPLE
OF IT OK THANK YOU.
MONTHS.
>> THERE'S BEEN A COUPLE
>> YEAH YEAH.
MONTHS.
AND ALSO I APPEAL TO THE
>> YEAH YEAH.
COMMUNITY ESPECIALLY THE YOUNG
AND ALSO I APPEAL TO THE
TO APPLY BECAUSE I MENTIONED TO
COMMUNITY ESPECIALLY THE YOUNG
THEM THAT IF YOU LOOK AT OUR
TO APPLY BECAUSE I MENTIONED TO
COMPOSITION MANY OF US ARE
THEM THAT IF YOU LOOK AT OUR
RETIRED AND AGED AND WORKING
COMPOSITION MANY OF US ARE
FOR YOURSELF.
RETIRED AND AGED AND WORKING
>> I'M SPEAKING WITH MYSELF AND
FOR YOURSELF.
WE NEED SOME SOME YOUNG PEOPLE
>> I'M SPEAKING WITH MYSELF AND
TO REALLY APPLY BECAUSE THEIR
WE NEED SOME SOME YOUNG PEOPLE
ISSUES ARE A BIT DIFFERENT THAN
TO REALLY APPLY BECAUSE THEIR
OURS AND THE POLICE FORCE ALSO
ISSUES ARE A BIT DIFFERENT THAN
IS YOUNG AND THEY KNOW EACH
OURS AND THE POLICE FORCE ALSO
OTHER BETTER THAN US.
IS YOUNG AND THEY KNOW EACH
SO I THINK IT REALLY IMPORTANT
OTHER BETTER THAN US.
TO HAVE A MIX OF DIFFERENT
SO I THINK IT REALLY IMPORTANT
AGES, DIFFERENT EXPERIENCES,
TO HAVE A MIX OF DIFFERENT
DIFFERENT OUTLOOKS AT MOVING
AGES, DIFFERENT EXPERIENCES,
OUR COMMISSION FORWARD AND I
DIFFERENT OUTLOOKS AT MOVING
THINK IT'S IMPORTANT TO HAVE
OUR COMMISSION FORWARD AND I
THAT.
THINK IT'S IMPORTANT TO HAVE
THE OTHER THING IS IN TERMS
THAT.
OF NUMBER OF COMPLAINTS WE HAVE
THE OTHER THING IS IN TERMS
NOW UP TO TWENTY NINE AND THAT
OF NUMBER OF COMPLAINTS WE HAVE
SEEMS TO BE WITHIN THE UPPER
NOW UP TO TWENTY NINE AND THAT
RANGE OF COMPLAINTS THAT ARE
SEEMS TO BE WITHIN THE UPPER
RECEIVED BY AIRPARK THAT DOES
RANGE OF COMPLAINTS THAT ARE
NOT INCLUDE THE COMPLAINTS THAT
RECEIVED BY AIRPARK THAT DOES
WERE FILED DIRECTLY WITH APD.
NOT INCLUDE THE COMPLAINTS THAT
I WILL TAKE THE TIME IN
WERE FILED DIRECTLY WITH APD.
DECEMBER AND FROM NOW TILL OUR
I WILL TAKE THE TIME IN
NEXT MEETING IN JANUARY TO GO
DECEMBER AND FROM NOW TILL OUR
OVER SOME OF THE COMPLAINTS
NEXT MEETING IN JANUARY TO GO
THAT WERE REFERRED TO AP AND
OVER SOME OF THE COMPLAINTS
LOOK AT THE OUTCOMES AND SEE IF
THAT WERE REFERRED TO AP AND
WE CAN REVIEW THOSE ONES ALSO
LOOK AT THE OUTCOMES AND SEE IF
IN THE BUT I WOULD ALSO AS I
WE CAN REVIEW THOSE ONES ALSO
KNOW TRAINING COMMITTEE WE DID
IN THE BUT I WOULD ALSO AS I
NOT HAVE THE FULL MEETING WE
KNOW TRAINING COMMITTEE WE DID
WOULD LIKE TO ONE OF THE ISSUES
NOT HAVE THE FULL MEETING WE
WE DISCUSSED IN THE PAST WAS TO
WOULD LIKE TO ONE OF THE ISSUES
REALLY GO OVER SOME GO FOR OUR
WE DISCUSSED IN THE PAST WAS TO
ORDINANCE AND SEE IF IT NEEDS
REALLY GO OVER SOME GO FOR OUR
TO BE UPDATED AND IT HASN'T
ORDINANCE AND SEE IF IT NEEDS
BEEN DONE AND OVER FOUR OR SO
TO BE UPDATED AND IT HASN'T
YEARS AND FOR OUR COMMISSION
BEEN DONE AND OVER FOUR OR SO
AND MAYBE THE PLANNING
YEARS AND FOR OUR COMMISSION
COMMITTEE IS ALSO TO LOOK AT
AND MAYBE THE PLANNING
THE QUESTIONS THAT WE HAVE FOR
COMMITTEE IS ALSO TO LOOK AT
INTERVIEWING OUR POTENTIAL
THE QUESTIONS THAT WE HAVE FOR
CANDIDATES BECAUSE THIS IS THE
INTERVIEWING OUR POTENTIAL
FIRST VERSION OF THE QUESTIONS
CANDIDATES BECAUSE THIS IS THE
AND BASED ON HOW YOU FEEL ABOUT
FIRST VERSION OF THE QUESTIONS
THEM, WE NEED TO HAVE THOSE
AND BASED ON HOW YOU FEEL ABOUT
QUESTIONS UPDATED IN A WAY THAT
THEM, WE NEED TO HAVE THOSE
REFLECT THE PROGRESS THAT WE
QUESTIONS UPDATED IN A WAY THAT
MADE IN THE EXPECTATIONS OF THE
REFLECT THE PROGRESS THAT WE
COMMISSIONERS AND HAVING
MADE IN THE EXPECTATIONS OF THE
QUESTIONS THAT ARE MORE
COMMISSIONERS AND HAVING
RELEVANT THAN JUST GENERIC
QUESTIONS THAT ARE MORE
ONES.
RELEVANT THAN JUST GENERIC
SO I HOPE THAT WE CAN HAVE
ONES.
THOSE AVAILABLE TO THE
SO I HOPE THAT WE CAN HAVE
COMMISSION BY JANUARY.
THOSE AVAILABLE TO THE
>> YOU KNOW, WE'RE STILL ALSO
COMMISSION BY JANUARY.
HAVING WHENEVER THERE IS ANY
>> YOU KNOW, WE'RE STILL ALSO
ISSUE RELATED TO SOME OF THE
HAVING WHENEVER THERE IS ANY
COMPLAINTS WHEN I THINK THERE
ISSUE RELATED TO SOME OF THE
ARE TWO OR SO THREE IN THE
COMPLAINTS WHEN I THINK THERE
PIPELINE WAITING FOR THE APC TO
ARE TWO OR SO THREE IN THE
HAVE THEM FINISHED THE
PIPELINE WAITING FOR THE APC TO
SITUATION AND PROBABLY WILL
HAVE THEM FINISHED THE
HAVE A MEETING TO REVIEW
SITUATION AND PROBABLY WILL
UNREDACTED MATERIALS AND FINISH
HAVE A MEETING TO REVIEW
THE REVIEWS AND REPORTS
UNREDACTED MATERIALS AND FINISH
OF THOSE THREE OUTSTANDING
THE REVIEWS AND REPORTS
COMPLAINTS THEY HAVE.
OF THOSE THREE OUTSTANDING
THANK YOU VERY MUCH THAT THAT
COMPLAINTS THEY HAVE.
PART OF YOUR REPORT REMINDS ME
THANK YOU VERY MUCH THAT THAT
WHEN WE WERE TALKING ABOUT THE
PART OF YOUR REPORT REMINDS ME
RECORDS MANAGEMENT SYSTEMS,
WHEN WE WERE TALKING ABOUT THE
THEY CAN SET IT UP SO THAT
RECORDS MANAGEMENT SYSTEMS,
CERTAIN INFORMATION CAN BE
THEY CAN SET IT UP SO THAT
RELEASED TO IMPACT BUT NOT
CERTAIN INFORMATION CAN BE
PUBLIC SO THAT SETS UP AGAIN
RELEASED TO IMPACT BUT NOT
OUR TRANSPARENCY ISSUES THAT WE
PUBLIC SO THAT SETS UP AGAIN
WILL BE ABLE TO SEE NONPUBLIC
OUR TRANSPARENCY ISSUES THAT WE
INFORMATION UPON REQUEST.
WILL BE ABLE TO SEE NONPUBLIC
>> SO OK, THANK YOU VERY MUCH.
INFORMATION UPON REQUEST.
CITY COUNCIL UPDATE UM WOULD
>> SO OK, THANK YOU VERY MUCH.
EITHER OF OUR LIAISON'S WANT TO
KNOW?
>> OK, WELL YEAH I WAS GOING TO
TALK A LITTLE BIT ABOUT WINNING
OVER YEAH OK AND WE DID GOOD
THANK YOU AND THANK YOU FOR THE
UPDATE ABOUT OUR NEW
COMMISSIONER
.
YEAH YEAH.
OK YOU KNOW FOR NOW THANK YOU.
TIME FOR COMMUNICATIONS.
IS THERE ANYONE IN THE AUDIENCE
WHO WOULD LIKE TO SPEAK TO THE
COMMISSION AT THIS TIME?
>> MISS CUMMINGS, ANYBODY ON
THE PHONE?
NO THANK YOU.
SO WE JUST WANT TO AGAIN SAY
PLEASE IF YOU HAVE ISSUES YOU
WANT TO BRING BEFORE THE
COMMISSION THAT WE HAVE TIME
SET UP BEFORE AND AFTER EACH
MEETING AND YOU CERTAINLY ARE
ENCOURAGED TO DO SO.
ANY OTHER COMMUNICATIONS AT
ALL, MISS CUMMINGS?
>> OK, SO AGAIN THIS IS OUR
LAST MEETING OF THE YEAR.
I WANT TO WISH EVERYONE THE
LAST HOLIDAY SEASON BE CAREFUL
OUT THERE AND IS THERE ANYTHING
ANYONE ELSE HAS BEFORE WE
ADJOURN?
THANK YOU VERY MUCH.
THANK YOU TO THE DEPARTMENT
REPRESENTATIVES.
WE ARE ALWAYS SO HAPPY TO HAVE
YOU COME.
ALL RIGHT.
HAPPY HOLIDAYS.
HAPPY HOLIDAYS TO EVERYONE.
IS THERE CAN I HAVE MOTION TO
ADJOURN?
THEY'VE ALREADY PUT UP AH WE'RE
DONE.
SO I HAVE A MOTION TO ADJOURN
ANYBODY ELSE SECOND.
ALL RIGHT.
ALL IN FAVOR.
MEETINGS ADJOURNED.
ALL RIGHT.
>> THANK YOU